Only the most important changes more recent than version 0.6 are noted here.

Version 1.3.0:
	Experimental support for Windows builds of wimlib has been added.

	--source-list option added to `imagex capture' and `imagex append'.

Version 1.2.6:
	Storing UNIX file owners, groups, and modes in WIM images is now
	possible using `imagex capture' with the --unix-data flag.

	Minor bug fixes and documentation fixes.

Version 1.2.5:
	NTFS capture: Fixed capturing duplicate reparse points.

	NTFS capture: Capture first unnamed stream if there are more than one
	(print warning instead of error).

	Allow multiple test cases to execute concurrently (e.g. make -j2 check).

Version 1.2.4:
	Added --arch switch to mkwinpeimg script to support getting AMD64 WinPE
	from the WAIK.

	Update to work with ntfs-3g version 2013.1.13.

Version 1.2.3:
	Fixed truncating file to shorter but non-zero length on read-write
	mounted WIM image.

	Various code cleanups and minor documentation fixes.

Version 1.2.2:
	LZX and XPRESS decompression have received some additional optimizations
	and should now be even faster.  (Although, they were already pretty
	fast--- much faster than typical I/O speeds.)

	Fixed a bug introduced in v1.2.1 that would cause a directory tree
	containing hard links to be captured incorrectly in some cases.

Version 1.2.1:
	By default, unmounting a read-write mounted WIM with 'imagex unmount
	--commit' will now change the WIM in-place without needing to write the
	entire WIM again.  Use 'imagex unmount --commit --rebuild' to get the
	old behavior.

	'imagex unmount' no longer has a hard-coded limit of 10 minutes to wait
	for a response from the daemon servicing the mounted WIM.  Instead,
	every second 'imagex unmount' will check if the daemon is still alive,
	and keep waiting if so, otherwise terminate with an error.

	'imagex unmount --commit' on a read-write mounted WIM will now print
	progress information regarding the writing of new or modified streams
	the WIM, just like when capturing or appending a WIM.

	A small change has been made to XPRESS compression and it should improve
	the compression ratio slightly.

	A change was made that may improve performance slightly when applying a
	WIM image to a NTFS volume.

	Microsoft has managed to introduce even more bugs into their software,
	and now the WIMs for Windows 8 have incorrect (too low) reference counts
	for some streams.  This is unsafe because such streams can be removed
	when they are in actuality still referenced in the WIM (perhaps by a
	different image).  wimlib will now work around this problem by fixing
	the stream reference counts.  This is only done when wimlib_delete_image() is
	called ('imagex delete') or when wimlib_mount_image() is called with
	WIMLIB_MOUNT_FLAG_READWRITE ('imagex mountrw').  Please note that this
	requires reading the metadata for all images in the WIM, so this will
	make these operations noticably slower on WIMs with multiple images.

	Various other bugfixes.

Version 1.2.0:
	Appending images to a WIM is now be done by default without re-building
	the whole WIM.  Use the --rebuild flag to get the old behavior (which
	was to re-build the entire WIM when a new image is appended).

	A new command `imagex optimize' is now available to manually re-build a
	WIM that has wasted space due to repeated appends.

	Progress information has been improved, and now arbitrary callback
	functions can be used to show the progress of a WIM operation.

	A possible bug with changing the bootable image of a WIM was fixed.

	Some advisory locking is now done to prevent two processes from
	modifying a WIM at the same time (but only in some cases).  For example,
	you cannot mount two images from a WIM read-write at the same time.

	Some functions have been reorganized:
		* wimlib_mount() renamed to wimlib_mount_image().
		* wimlib_unmount() renamed to wimlib_unmount_image().
		* wimlib_overwrite_xml_and_header() removed as
		wimlib_overwrite() suffices now.
		* wimlib_apply_image_to_ntfs_volume() removed as
		wimlib_extract_image() suffices now.
		* wimlib_add_image_from_ntfs_volume() removed as
		* wimlib_add_image() suffices now.

	Previously, the soname of libwim.so has been 0.0.0, despite many
	interface changes.  The soname is now updated to 1.0.0 and will now be
	updated each release.

Version 1.1.0:
	Resources will now be compressed using multiple threads by default.
	(This applies to `imagex capture', `imagex append', and `imagex
	export').

	Some performance improvements in mounted WIMs.

	More progress information is shown when capturing a WIM.

Version 1.0.4:
	Lots of minor fixes, code cleanups, and some documentation updates.
	Nothing in particular is really noteworthy.

Version 1.0.3:
	LZX and XPRESS compression improvements.

	Fixed calculation of Directory Count, File Count, Total Bytes, and Hard
	Link Bytes of the WIM.

Version 1.0.2:
	Fixed bug when capturing NTFS file with multiple named data streams.

	Internally, we are now using inode structures, even though these don't
	appear literally in the WIM file.  This simplifies some of the code
	(mainly for WIM mounting) and likely fixed a few problems, although it
	needs more testing.

Version 1.0.1:
	Fixed problem when exporting images from XPRESS to LZX compressed WIM or
	vice versa

Version 1.0.0:
	Enough changes to call it version 1.0.0!

	Capturing a WIM directly from a NTFS volume, and applying a WIM directly
	to a NTFS volume, is now supported.

	Hard links and symbolic links have much improved support.  They are
	supported for WIM capture, WIM application, and mounted WIMs (you can
	even make them on read-write mounted WIMs).

	Alternate data streams are now supported on mounted WIMs through an
	xattr or a Windows-style stream interface.  Also they are supported when
	capturing a WIM from NTFS or applying a WIM to NTFS.

	Split WIMs are better supported.  You may now apply an image directly
	from a split WIM, mount an image from a split WIM read-only, or export
	an image from a split WIM.

	Using a capture configuration file is now supported (but not fully yet).

	SHA1 message digests are checked in more places, so we can make sure
	applied and captured data is correct.

	Man pages have been updated and consolidated.

Version 0.7.2:
	Fixed segfault when unmounting read-only WIM.

Version 0.7.1:
	Support for joining and splitting WIMs.
	Also, security data is now preserved by default.

Version 0.6.3:
	Can now build with older gcc and system headers, like on CentOS 5.

Version 0.6.2:
	Fixed bug that made it impossible to overwrite files in read-write
	mount.

Version 0.6.1:
	Write byte-order mark before WIM XML data.  (imagex.exe requires this to
	be there.)
